The legion of bone fractures, resulting from the effect of both nature and man, has become one of the major health problems. The existing techniques of bone fracture classification are very time consuming and the imaging of X-ray is also a problem in interpretation. We come up with an in-novative solution through the deployment of a Hybrid Model by combining deep and machine learning methods for classification of bone fracture. The system we propose uses a dual strategy by deploying deep learning for feature extraction with high precision and machine learning for efficient classification. With these, the system will overcome the flaws of the current techniques, giving a better and faster classification with little mistakes.
Experimental evidence indicates that the combination of automated machine learning and deep learning techniques with a small dataset but high class well increases accuracy. Mixing up Convo-lutional Neural Network (CNN) with Random Forest and Extreme Gradient Boost (XGBoost) algorithms outperformed by simply relying on CNN, which achieved an accuracy of 84% with ResNet. The findings underline the effectiveness of hybrid techniques, particularly in data lack-ing situations, what might be considered as a strong asset with respect to real-life implementa-tions. This research has major significance to healthcare, but the novel means of classifying bone fractures could enhance the quicker and more accurate diagnosis, which should lead to improve-ment in outcomes and efficiency of care. To be quite frank, the essence of this study provides a solution to a global health problem that is highly prominent today, with a wide impact on healthcare systems globally. 
